Corpus+Method+Pragmatic purpose1A：赵老乐又做饭呢？B：做饭呢。你不做饭呢？A：你拉倒吧，你怕老婆B：啥叫怕老婆，这叫夫妻感情，懂不？A: Zhao Laole, are you cooking again?B: Yeah. Don't we cook?A: Come on. It's because you're afraid of your wife.B: What do you mean by being afraid of my wife? This is conjugal affection.+Ignorance of Implicated PremiseSaving face2A：回家吧，饭菜都凉了。B：凉你再回去给我热。A: Please come back home. The food is getting cold.B: If it's cold, go and heat it up again. You should leave.+Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionShowing discontent3A：哎乐啊，你说我咋有啥话都想跟你说呢？B：那就对了，跟别人说不出事儿了。A: Le, why do I feel like I want to tell you everything?B: That's right. If you tell others everything, something might go wrong.+Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionElusion4A：我不录了，万一要上了电视，肯定被人相中了。到时就麻烦了，你还录吗？B：你说呢？A：你要觉得不太成熟的话，再练练，找个环境优秀，闲人免进的地方练。A: I don't want to record the self-introduction (for blind date). If it's on TV and someone takes a fancy to me, it'll be a real hassle. Are you still recording?B: Well, what do you think?A: If your introduction is not good enough, practice more. We can find a place with excellent environment and where no others are allowed… to practice.+Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionGenerate humor5A：师傅不是，是请您出国啊。B：出国啊。A：去加拿大。B：真的是，这家伙这都厉害，一脚就给我踢出亚洲。A: I'm inviting you to go abroad.B: Go abroad?A: To Canada.B: Really? Oh, now I'm kicked out of Asia.+Distortion of SaturationIrony6A：它（甲鱼蛋）太滑，不好夹，用线穿起来，吃着方便。B：谁研究的？A：吴秘书B：那家真是人才。唉，这扯淡扯淡，是不是搁这来的？A: The turtle eggs are too slippery to pick up. We then string them up for convenience.B: Who thought of this?A: Secretary Wu.B: That person is really a talent. Alas, is “talking shit” from here? (“String eggs up” and “talking shit” are both pronounced as “Chědàan” in Chinese.)+Meaning CreationIrony7A：唉呀，完了，这车越陷越深了啊，这排气管子让泥糊住了。干什么玩意儿啊，你老破毛驴子往哪赶呢？B：往前赶呢。A: Oh no, this car is sinking deeper and deeper. The exhaust pipe is blocked by mud and can't come out. What are you doing? Where are you driving this old donkey?B: Forward.+Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionSaving face8A：你咋这么说话，一共就这么宽的道，我往哪走啊？B：你乐意咋走咋走。A: How can you talk like this. There's only such a narrow road. Where can I go?B: Go wherever you like.+Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionShowing discontent9A：你看我把你卖了也赔不起。B：你怎么这么说话了，把我卖了，我听听多少钱一斤。A: I couldn't afford to pay up even if I sold you! B: How could you talk like this? Sell me out, let's see how much I'm worth.+Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionShowing discontent10A：我说你还冤你了，你这样开车不合格B：我哪儿不合格A：长得就违章啊A: I didn't treat you wrongly. Your driving is not okay.B: Why am I not okay?A: Your appearance has already broken the common rules!  +Distortion of SaturationIrony11A：啥意思啊？这一代是当年游击队的根据地，还破地方。来前没打招呼吗？B：没有。A: What do you mean? This place was the base of the guerrilla troops. How can you call it a poor place? Did you not give any notice before coming?B: No.+IShowing discontent12A：别装了，就你那腐败的肚子，你不吃谁相信呢？你拉倒吧你。B：吃饭是小事A：喝酒是大事B：没那个意思。A: Don't act like you don't want to eat up everything. Your corrupt stomach gives you away.B: meal gathering is a minor thing.A: So drinking party is a major thing.B: I didn't mean that.+Misinterpretation of Pragmatic EnrichmentIrony13A：当年我就是游击队民兵排尖刀班挖坑组的坑长。真的啊，这一代的坑完全我是一手设计的。那时候对付日本鬼子，那是大坑套小坑，小坑套老坑，坑中还有水，水中还有钉，下去就没命。B：我就说今天这坑也是你挖的吧！A: Back then, I was the leader of the pit-digging group in the elite squad of the guerrilla militia platoon. All the pits in this area were designed by me. At that time, when dealing with the Japanese army, we had big pits within small pits, and even water pits with nails. Once they fall in, they will die.B: I knew it! You dug this hole, you made me fall into the hole, didn't you?+Blurring the Main TopicShowing discontent14B：什么车到这都陷了呀？C：独轮车就陷不住。A：人家问你的是机动车！B: Do all vehicles get stuck here?C: A unicycle won't get stuck.A: He's asking about motor vehicles!+Misinterpretation of Pragmatic EnrichmentShowing discontent15A：你咋这么慢呀?B：咋快呀，我还会飞呀。B: Why are you so slow?A: How can I be fast? I can't fly!+Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionShowing discontent16A：戴高帽人就给你乐？B：那咋的，别说他乡长啊，就是大总统给他戴高帽他都乐啊，戴高乐嘛。A: You get happy when someone flatters you?B: Well, you know, even if it's not the mayor of his town but the president, he'll be happy to be flattered, as we all know “Charles de Gaulle”. (Charles de Gaulle is pronounced as “Dàigāolè” in Chinese, which can be comprehended as an abbreviation for “people get happy when flattered” though it's not a common use.)+Meaning CreationGenerate humor17B：你上中学走那天我还去送去了吗？啊，临别是送你上路，你回头跟乡亲们一摆手，当时老姑的心呐，默默无语两眼泪。A：耳边响起驼铃声啊。B: I also sent you off on the day you went to middle school. Well, when it was the time to part and you waved goodbye to the villagers, I was just, silent with two streams of tears.A: And the camel bells rang by my ears.  +Blurring the Main TopicGenerate humor18A：我56。B：谁问你了？ A：你问不问我也56，属鸡的。A: I'm 56.B: Who asked you that?A: Whether you ask or not, I'm 56. I was born in the year of the Rooster.  +Ignorance of Implicated ConclusionShowing discontent19A：是人倪萍都出本书么叫《日子》，我这本书就叫《月子》。B：尽吹牛啊。你要写月子，我也写本书《伺候月子》。A: The hostess Ni Ping could write a book called “Days”, and my book will be called “Months”.B: Just bragging! If you write about the postpartum period (“months” sounds the same as postpartum period in Chinese), I'll write a book called “Taking Care of the Postpartum Period”.+Distortion of SaturationIrony20A：这样，我给你出三岁小孩的脑筋急转弯。B：你别整三岁的，有能耐你整四岁。A：四岁行啊。B：五岁都不在乎。A: How about this? I'll give you a brain teaser for three-year-old kids.B: Don't give me the ones for three-year-olds. If you have the ability, give me the ones for four-year-olds.A: Well, okay.B: I can handle it even if it's for five-year-olds. +Misinterpretation of pragmatic EnrichmentSaving face21A：那是相当期待呀，那家伙，那看完《月子一》就想看《月子二》，都搁那憋着呢。B：那这话是真的，那憋得是相当难受啊。那村长啊，就上俺家，就堵着门儿，就告诉你，别让你媳妇让他乱走了，赶紧写《月子二》吧，村头厕所可没纸了。A: People are really looking forward to the second volume of Months! You know, after watching the first volume, they just feel hard to hold back.B: That's for real. It's really hard to hold it in. The village chief came to my house and blocked the door, telling me, “Don't let your wife hang around. Hurry up and publish the second volume. There's no tissue in the toilet.”+Misinterpretation of PolysemyIrony22A：怎么的，你黑土有能耐也飘啊。B：我飘起来是沙尘暴。A: What? You, Heitu, can also tread on air if you're as capable as me.B: If I treaded on air, I would be a bloody sandstorm. (“Heitu” sounds the same as black soil in Chinese.)+Misinterpretation of PolysemySaving face23A：无论如何呀，一会你得让我呀，把这鸡抱走。B：抱你是抱不走了，你可以端走端走。A: Anyhow, you gotta let me take this chicken away in a moment.B: Well, you can't take it away, but you can take it away by holding the plate.  +Misinterpretation of Pragmatic EnrichmentElusion24A：人家那不忙嘛B：忙忙，他能不忙吗？三四个小丫头围前围后他能不忙吗？A: He is busy, you know.B: Busy! Yeah, with three or four young ladies around him, how could he not be? +Distortion of SaturationIrony